What is authentication?
In simple definition it means confirming your own identity.
In real world, you would use a photo ID to authenticate yourself,
it could be a driver's license,
or your social security card that determines who you are.
The form of authentication you can do digitally is usually username and password.
There are other ways as well that you could use in order to authenticate yourself,
like token-based authentication, where you have
an object that controls and proofs who you are.
You could use OAuth,
which is an external service which provides a token on behalf of
you to authenticate you to the external service.
You could also use OTP,
which stands for One Time Password,
which a lot of us have come across.
You could have time-based token,
which is a token generated with something only you know.
This token changes after some period of time,
and JWT more on this we will discuss.
You could have bio-metric authentication,
fingerprints, facial recognition, face ID.
These are the common other ways of authentication you use in today's world.
We will focus on a few of them,
which will be used with respect to rest APIs.
I'm going to summarize what this authentication means.
In simple words, authentication well,
is a process to prove that you are a person who you say you are.